Session 20 Recap

Back out near the edge of the forest Ephanna, Karesmine, Caelynn and Thrin continue to battle the swarm of red gnats. Thrin, desperate to see something go in their favor, takes two more shots with his bow. The first misses, but the second does enough damage to knock a group of insects out of the swarm.Then the swarm turns and envelopes Caelynn, the rest of the team can only see her dim shadow under all the flying insects. Thanks to her high constitution, she is able to withstand the stinging and only take minor damage. 

Ephanna unleashes two Eldritch Blasts, the first missing and the second one dealing enough damage to knock another cluster out of the swarm. They Misty Step away and add some temporary health to themselves. Now that the swarm is around Caelynn, Karsemine is able to use her scimitar and short sword for a series of attacks, landing 4 hits on the swarm. She also uses Zephyr Strike to increase her movement and dash away. Finally Caelynn is able to duck out of the swarm, then facing them, casts a powerful Thunderwave spell, splitting the swarm in two and pushing it back 10 feet. As Thrin and Caelynn move back the swarm finally gives up and heads back into the forest. The team decides they have enough “testing” and should head back to tell the others what they discovered.
Back in town, Bonogo is being guided by Stuart down an alley to a half burned building. According to Stuart this is where they will find Stacey. As soon as they step inside the large warehouse they find a group of children formed into two groups with what appear to be the leaders arguing in the middle. One of them is Stacey, the bugbear girl they are looking for. She is in a heated argument with the other children who are accusing her of continuing to be too bossy. Bonogo whispers into Stuart's ear, “you know what to do” then sends him over. Stacey immediately gets upset at seeing Stuart and tells him that he can’t play with them, but Stuart is undeterred. He sticks his hand out and demands his gold back, convinced that she is the one that stole it. Stuart takes a quick glance at Bonogo before he pulls out the dart and threatens her with it. Alarmed, she yells at Stuart and then throws her gold pouch at him before storming out the door. 

Stuart is so happy with the outcome that he runs out the door, racing off to tell his mom the good news. The other kids now ask Bonogo to play with them instead. He agrees to play hide and seek as long as the kids hide first. He counts to 20 then leaves the building without making a sound. He is intent on following Stacey and catches up to her in the next alley. After seeing no one else around, he quickly grabs her and puts a knife to her throat. He tells her to stop bullying Stuart or he will come back, then dashes into the shadows. Clearly shaken, Stacey runs home. Bonogo makes his way back to the group out in the field.

Back in town, Bonogo is being guided by Stuart down an alley to a half burned building. According to Stuart this is where they will find Stacey. As soon as they step inside the large warehouse they find a group of children formed into two groups with what appear to be the leaders arguing in the middle. One of them is Stacey, the bugbear girl they are looking for. She is in a heated argument with the other children who are accusing her of continuing to be too bossy. Bonogo whispers into Stuart's ear, “you know what to do” then sends him over. Stacey immediately gets upset at seeing Stuart and tells him that he can’t play with them, but Stuart is undeterred. He sticks his hand out and demands his gold back, convinced that she is the one that stole it. Stuart takes a quick glance at Bonogo before he pulls out the dart and threatens her with it. Alarmed, she yells at Stuart and then throws her gold pouch at him before storming out the door. 

As the group approaches the preparations happening in the field, they find Stafl singing and directing the workers from a makeshift throne of barrels on the back of a wagon. Ephanna, Karesmine and Caelynn relay their findings from their tests: do not attack the trees directly, but the forest should respond to changes on the ground. Bonogo takes up a supervisor role and is observing the work when he hears footsteps quickly approaching behind him. He is able to dodge a slap from a furious Bugbear woman. Even with the missed slap, she gets up into Bonogo’s face and begins to berate him for encouraging Stuart to harass her daughter, causing many of the workers to stop and watch. Bonogo tries to shift the situation and asks why she is not helping with the ditches and should get to work instead. This, of course, only makes her more furious. 

She stands up to her full Bugbear height and begins to scream at him. She finds just the right words to cut deep: he smells like a circus animal. Stafl takes a look around at the crowd to gauge their reactions. A farmer whispers to him that Stafl better step in and help because Marla is not someone to mess with. They reveal that she is in charge of the workers in town and she means business. Bonogo continues to escalate the situation, telling Marla he sees where her daughter gets her attitude from. Marla then grapples Bonogo and is about to do much worse when Caelynn comes to the rescue. Using her bracelet she is able to diffuse the aggression and get everyone back to work, united against the approaching forest. The rest of the Questionable Company decide to take a short rest as their final preparation.

Questionable Company, along with the townsfolk, watch as the forest comes within range of their plan. As the forest finally reaches the fortifications, the fires are lit in the ditches. Immediately they can all see the trees pull back and then start to turn to the east, away from the town. Cheers go up along the ditches and into town. The mayor and sheriff congratulate the heroes and thank them again for all their help. Marla approaches Caelynn and asks her how she should deal with Bonogo, but Ephanna quickly intervenes, letting her, and the town, know that the Questionable Company is leaving town to continue their journey. And now that the danger has passed Caelynn asks the mayor about Lysandra, but finds out that they have never heard of her.

Caelynn quickly pulls out the “rockie-talkie” and attempts to call Lysandra. After a brief pause she is connected with the familiar voice of Sara, one half of the operators in Mirathorn. Caelynn relays her request and Sara calls Lysandra. She tells Caelynn that all she could hear was mumbling about the forest leaving and that something strange happened to the time. Sara then connects Caelynn directly to Lysandra who is relieved and overjoyed that the group is ok and that they took care of the forest. Caelynn wants to know if she is ok and where she is. Lysandra tells her that she can’t remember much after the group left, only that she decided to go around the forest and she could smell meat while trying to sleep. She is exhausted and disoriented. Caelynn tells her to stop where she is and make a camp and rest, Karesmine will lead the team to her.

Using her extensive tracking skills, Karesmine is able to estimate the distance and direction that Lysandra may have traveled. The group sets off from the town, Ephanna keeping a close eye on Thrin. Thirty minutes later they come across an unusual sight: a wagon partly unloaded and horses wandering around a stack of crates. Caelynn approaches the makeshift shelter and hears mumbling from inside. She finds Lysandra drawing in the dirt. She says it is a tower where the voices are coming from and she knows where it is. The first thing Caelynn notices about Lysandra is that her eyes are shimmery, just like the members of the cult. She quickly begins to make the antidote from the tea in her bag. While the tea is being prepared, Caelynn takes a closer look at the drawing. It appears to be a top-down blueprint of a tower and is very well done. Finally, after drinking the tea, Lysandra comes out of the spell. She is very confused, wondering where she is and how she got there. All that she is able to remember is voices in the dark after the group left into the forest. 

Back outside, Karesmine is rounding up the horses and making sure they are properly taken care of. She can see that the storm is still building in the distance, but will soon be upon the camp. Stafl starts sorting through the provisions, convinced that someone snuck in the tainted meat before leaving Mirathorn. With a huge sigh of relief he finds the bacon untouched, however the other crates of jerky did not fare as well. Mixed in with the meat is cleverly disguised tainted meat. Not being able to separate the good from the bad, the whole thing will have to be burned. Caelynn calls Sara to tell her the good news about Lysandra, and bad news about the tainted meat. Sara is very concerned about who she can now trust in the city. She transfers Caelynn to Professor Tealeaf, but she doesn't pick up.

Caelynn continues to wait on the line for an answer from Tealeaf as the rest of the group set up a proper camp for a rest. They need to set up a shelter for the animals and themselves as it is clear the storm is approaching and Karesmine can see it is bringing the magical shimmering rain. Ephanna plans to create a disguise and go back to town for new supplies, but for the moment the group is settling in for a rest around the camp.